 Title: Predicting the weather for February 6th, 2019 Using historical data
Summary: In this project, we were asked to find a way to predict the weather for February 6, 2019, using only historical data. Our idea is to collect historical data for the last 10 years and find measures of the central tendency to predict the average, maximum, minimum temperature and using the frequency table to find the condition. We also used a linear graph and a bar chart for data visualization.
Objective: We are asked to find a way to predict weather for February 6th, 2019, using only historical data. The problem is that we have no gadgets or tools to predict it. We are required to conduct statistical analysis and determine the weather.
Methodology: Having finished the data collection, we created 4 data sets (Max. Temperature, Min. Temperature, State and amount of precipitation) and recorded all the data for the previous 10 years. Our methodology involves calculating the average for the highest, lowest, and average temperatures and rounding the result. To find rain/snow fall we used if else statement. If the temperature is above or equal to 32F, and the precipitation is higher or equal to 0.1 than rain, if the temperature is below 32F, and the precipitation is higher or equal to 0.1, then it is snow, otherwise there is no rain or snowfall. In addition, we used a frequency table to see what the weather conditions were during the last ten years, to predict whether it will be cloudy or sunny.
 Results: From the results, we can see that the average temperature in the last 10 years is 35F, the Average Maximum Temperature is 41F and Average Minimum Temperature is 28F. Using this data, we claim it to be our prediction for the temperature of February 6th’s weather. The Precipitation is less than 0.1. It means that there will be no snow/rainfall. From the frequency table, it can be seen that the probability of cloudy is higher than sunny.
2

  Conclusion:
Our prediction for February 6th 2019. It will be cloudy, no rain, no snow, the temperature will be between 28-41F, and the average temperature will be 35F. If we compare with the actual weather, we will see that our forecast was 4-5 degrees lower. Overall, I can say that the accuracy of our method is not high. Because many factors play an important role in weather forecasting, such as global warming. Using only historical data is not enough to predict accurate weather, but our method can be improved using ID3 and the sliding window algorithm.
